Classification of High-Level languages:

    The high-level programming languages can be categorized into different types on
the basis of the application area in which they are employed as well as the different
design paradigms supported by them.

1.Categorisation based on Application

    a)Commercial languages:These programming languages are dedicated to the
                           commercial domain and are specially designed for solving
                           business-related problems.
        Ex:COBOL

    b)Scientific languages:These programming languages are dedicated to the
                           scientific domain and are specially designed for solving
                           different scientific and mathematical problems.
        Ex:FORTAN

    c)Special purpose languages:These programming languages are specially designed
                                for performing some dedicated functions. For example,
                                SQL is a high-level language specially designed to
                                interact with the database programs only.

    d)General purpose languages:These programming languages are used for developing
                                different types of software application regardless
                                of their application area.
        Ex:BASIC, C, C++, JAVA

2.Categorisation based on Design paradigm

    a)Procedure-oriented languages:These programming languages are also called an
                                   imperative programming language. In this language,
                                   a program is written as a sequence of procedures.
        Ex:FORTRAN, ALGOL, C, BASIC, and ADA

    b)Logic-oriented languages:These languages use logic programming paradigms as
                               the design approach for solving various computational problems.
        Ex:Prolog

    c) Object-oriented languages:These languages use object-oriented programming paradigms
                                 as the design approach for solving a given problem.
                                 In this programming language, a problem is divided into
                                 a number of objects which can interact by passing messages
                                 to each other.
            Ex:C++ and C# 